README.md, before:

# Pandektes Case Law Extractor

This NestJS service ingests a case law document (HTML or PDF), extracts structured metadata with an LLM, and stores the result in PostgreSQL via Prisma. It also exposes an endpoint to retrieve and/or delete an extracted case.

## Tech Stack

- **NestJS 11** for the application framework
- **Prisma ORM** on top of **PostgreSQL**
- **OpenAI-compatible LLM** (uses the OpenAI Responses API by default)
- **Cheerio** / **pdf-parse** for lightweight text extraction prior to prompting the LLM

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- pnpm 9+
- Docker (for the local PostgreSQL instance)
- An OpenAI (or compatible) API key with access to a JSON-capable model

## Getting Started

1. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   pnpm install
   ```
2. **Copy environment template and set secrets**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```
   Update `OPENAI_API_KEY`. Optionally tweak `OPENAI_MODEL`
3. **Start PostgreSQL**
   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```
4. **Generate the Prisma client & run the initial migration**
   ```bash
   pnpm exec prisma generate
   pnpm exec prisma migrate dev --name init
   ```
5. **Run the application**
   ```bash
   pnpm run start:dev
   ```

The server listens on `http://localhost:3000` by default.

## API

### `POST /cases/import`
Multipart form-data upload that expects a `file` field containing either the HTML or PDF case file. On success it returns the stored resource.

Sample response body:
```json
{
  "id": "b2f4a6ce-1c19-4eb3-9d4e-80cf98cb2448",
  "title": "Example v. Example",
  "decisionType": "Judgment",
  "decisionDate": "2024-01-15T00:00:00.000Z",
  "office": "Example Board",
  "court": "Court of Justice of the European Union",
  "caseNumber": "C-123/24",
  "summary": "…",
  "conclusion": "…",
  "createdAt": "2025-01-20T12:00:00.000Z",
  "updatedAt": "2025-01-20T12:00:00.000Z"
}
```

If a case with the same `caseNumber` already exists it will be updated; otherwise it is created.

### `GET /cases/{id}`
Fetches a single case resource by its UUID.

### `DELETE /cases/{id}`
Deletes a single case resource by its UUID.

## Environment Variables

| Name | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `DATABASE_URL` | ✅ | Connection string for Prisma (PostgreSQL). |
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | ✅ | API key for the OpenAI-compatible provider. |
| `OPENAI_MODEL` | ❌ | Override for the model name (defaults to `gpt-4o-mini`). |

## Key Decisions & Trade-offs

- **OpenAI Responses API**: Chosen for native JSON mode, simplifying schema validation. This can be swapped with any compatible provider by adjusting `ExtractionService`.
- **LLM-first parsing**: HTML/PDF parsing is intentionally minimal. The cleaning is done before handing control to the LLM to keep the implementation flexible. Deterministic parsing could be added later for frequently seen formats.
- **Upsert by `caseNumber`**: Helps avoid duplicates when re-processing previously ingested documents. Cases without a number are treated as unique inserts.

## Production Hardening Ideas

1. Automated retries and rate-limit handling for LLM providers.
2. Persist the original file and/or structured JSON blob for traceability.
3. Add structured validations + business rules (e.g. enforce required fields based on decision type).
4. Implement background jobs for extraction so uploads return quickly.
5. Test coverage (unit tests for extraction pipeline, e2e tests hitting a mock LLM).

## Troubleshooting

- **`prisma generate` missing**: Ensure `pnpm exec prisma generate` has been run after installing dependencies.
- **LLM failures**: Confirm the API key has access to JSON mode and that the document text is within size limits (service truncates to ~15k characters per request but can be updated by adjusting `RAW_TEXT_MAX_LENGTH`).
- **Docker port conflicts**: Update the exposed port in `docker-compose.yml` and `DATABASE_URL` accordingly.

Feel free to reach out if you have questions or run into issues while testing the service.

Commit message:

feat(cors): add CORS support with configurable origins

README.md, after:

# Pandektes Case Law Extractor

This NestJS service ingests a case law document (HTML or PDF), extracts structured metadata with an LLM, and stores the result in PostgreSQL via Prisma. It also exposes an endpoint to retrieve and/or delete an extracted case.

## Tech Stack

- **NestJS 11** for the application framework
- **Prisma ORM** on top of **PostgreSQL**
- **OpenAI-compatible LLM** (uses the OpenAI Responses API by default)
- **Cheerio** / **pdf-parse** for lightweight text extraction prior to prompting the LLM

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- pnpm 9+
- Docker (for the local PostgreSQL instance)
- An OpenAI (or compatible) API key with access to a JSON-capable model

## Getting Started

1. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   pnpm install
   ```
2. **Copy environment template and set secrets**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```
   Update `OPENAI_API_KEY`. Optionally tweak `OPENAI_MODEL`
3. **Start PostgreSQL**
   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```
4. **Generate the Prisma client & run the initial migration**
   ```bash
   pnpm exec prisma generate
   pnpm exec prisma migrate dev --name init
   ```
5. **Run the application**
   ```bash
   pnpm run start:dev
   ```

The server listens on `http://localhost:3000` by default.

## API

### `POST /cases/import`
Multipart form-data upload that expects a `file` field containing either the HTML or PDF case file. On success it returns the stored resource.

Sample response body:
```json
{
  "id": "b2f4a6ce-1c19-4eb3-9d4e-80cf98cb2448",
  "title": "Example v. Example",
  "decisionType": "Judgment",
  "decisionDate": "2024-01-15T00:00:00.000Z",
  "office": "Example Board",
  "court": "Court of Justice of the European Union",
  "caseNumber": "C-123/24",
  "summary": "…",
  "conclusion": "…",
  "createdAt": "2025-01-20T12:00:00.000Z",
  "updatedAt": "2025-01-20T12:00:00.000Z"
}
```

If a case with the same `caseNumber` already exists it will be updated; otherwise it is created.

### `GET /cases/{id}`
Fetches a single case resource by its UUID.

### `DELETE /cases/{id}`
Deletes a single case resource by its UUID.

## Environment Variables

| Name | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `DATABASE_URL` | ✅ | Connection string for Prisma (PostgreSQL). |
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | ✅ | API key for the OpenAI-compatible provider. |
|`CORS_ORIGINS` | ❌ | Comma-separated list of allowed origins for CORS. Defaults to allow all origins. |
| `OPENAI_MODEL` | ❌ | Override for the model name (defaults to `gpt-4o-mini`). |

## Key Decisions & Trade-offs

- **OpenAI Responses API**: Chosen for native JSON mode, simplifying schema validation. This can be swapped with any compatible provider by adjusting `ExtractionService`.
- **LLM-first parsing**: HTML/PDF parsing is intentionally minimal. The cleaning is done before handing control to the LLM to keep the implementation flexible. Deterministic parsing could be added later for frequently seen formats.
- **Upsert by `caseNumber`**: Helps avoid duplicates when re-processing previously ingested documents. Cases without a number are treated as unique inserts.

## Production Hardening Ideas

1. Automated retries and rate-limit handling for LLM providers.
2. Persist the original file and/or structured JSON blob for traceability.
3. Add structured validations + business rules (e.g. enforce required fields based on decision type).
4. Implement background jobs for extraction so uploads return quickly.
5. Test coverage (unit tests for extraction pipeline, e2e tests hitting a mock LLM).

## Troubleshooting

- **`prisma generate` missing**: Ensure `pnpm exec prisma generate` has been run after installing dependencies.
- **LLM failures**: Confirm the API key has access to JSON mode and that the document text is within size limits (service truncates to ~15k characters per request but can be updated by adjusting `RAW_TEXT_MAX_LENGTH`).
- **Docker port conflicts**: Update the exposed port in `docker-compose.yml` and `DATABASE_URL` accordingly.

Feel free to reach out if you have questions or run into issues while testing the service.
